Kafka 4.2.0 Reference Guide (#813)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: kafka/4.2/modules/ROOT/pages/kafka-connector-reference.adoc

= Apache Kafka Connector Reference - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::kafka/kafka-connector-reference.adoc

> ifndef::env-site,env-github[]

Reviewer: Lines 3, 4, 5 are unnecessary. If you keep them, you need to move the page-aliases line underneath them.

| Delivery Timeout Time Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS0
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  Determines the time unit for the delivery timeout scalar |  SECONDS |
| Enable idempotence a| Boolean |  When set to `true`, the producer ensures that exactly one copy of each message is written in the stream. If set to `false`, the producer retries due to broker failures and other conditions can write duplicates of the retried message in the stream. Enabling idempotence requires the value of `max.in.flight.requests.per.connection` to be less than or equal to `5`, retries to be greater than `0`, and acks to be `all`. If you do not explicitly set these values, suitable values are chosen. If incompatible values are set, a ConnectionException is thrown. |  false |
| Linger time  a| Number |  The producer groups records that arrive in between request transmissions into a single batched request. Normally, this occurs under load, when records arrive faster than they can be sent out. However, in some circumstances, the client might want to reduce the number of requests, even under a moderate load.

> *Reviewers, should "the client" in the previous sentence be changed to "the producer"?*

Reviewer: Don't forget to remove these embedded reviewer questions

Reviewer: A producer is the same thing as a client so it doesn't really matter.

{sp} +
{sp} +
This setting defaults to `0`, which means no delay. Setting `linger.ms=5`, for example, has the same effect of reducing the number of requests sent, but adds up to 5ms of latency to records sent in the absence of load. |  0 |
| Linger Time Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The time unit for the linger time scalar |  SECONDS |
| Maximum block time  a| Number |  Specifies for how long `KafkaProducer.send()` and `KafkaProducer.partitionsFor()` can be blocked. These methods can be blocked either because the buffer is full or because the `unavailable.Blocking` metadata in the user-supplied serializers or partitioner are counted against this timeout. |  60 |
| Maximum block time unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The time unit for the maximum block time scalar |  SECONDS |

> | Maximum in flight requests a| Number |  The maximum number of unacknowledged requests the client sends on a single connection before blocking. If this setting is greater than `1` and there are failed sends, there is a risk of message re-ordering due to retries (for example, if retries are enabled). *Reviewers, should "the client" in the previous sentence be changed to "the producer"?*|  5 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum in flight requests a| Number |  The maximum number of unacknowledged requests the client sends on a single connection before blocking. If this setting is greater than `1` and there are failed sends, there is a risk of message re-ordering due to retries if retries are enabled. |  5 |
```

Reviewer: It looks like you are embedding reviewer questions in the file.  ? Don't forget to remove these.

Reviewer: Producer = client

** SHA256
** SHA512 | The encryption algorithm used by SCRAM. Only acceptable values are SHA-256 and SHA-512. |  | x
| Bootstrap server URLs a| Array of String |  The list of servers to bootstrap the connection with the Kafka cluster. This can be a partial list of the available servers. |  | x
| Batch size a| Number |  The producer attempts to batch records together into fewer requests whenever multiple records are sent to the same partition. This helps performance on both the client and the server. This configuration controls the default batch size in bytes. No attempt is made to batch records larger than this size. Requests sent to brokers will contain multiple batches, one for each partition with the data that is available to send. A small batch size makes batching less common and can reduce throughput (a batch size of zero disables batching entirely). A very large batch size can result in more wasteful use of memory as a buffer of the specified batch size is always allocated in anticipation of additional records. |  `16` |
| The batch size unit of measure. a| Enumeration, one of:

** BYTE
** KB
** MB
** GB |  The unit of measure for the batch size scalar |  `KB` |

> | Buffer size a| Number |  The total bytes of memory the producer can use to buffer records waiting to be sent to the server. If records are sent faster than they can be delivered to the server, the producer will block for `max.block.ms` after which it throws an exception. This setting should generally correspond to the total memory the producer will use, but is not exact because not all memory the producer uses is used for buffering. Some additional memory is used for compression (if compression is enabled) as well as for maintaining in-flight requests. The default value in the Apache Kafka documentation is 33554432 (32MB), but this should be capped to align with expected values for Mule instances in CloudHub (v0.1 core) |  1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Buffer size a| Number |  The total bytes of memory the producer can use to buffer records waiting to be sent to the server. If records are sent faster than they can be delivered to the server, the producer blocks for `max.block.ms`, after which it throws an exception. This setting should generally correspond to the total memory the producer will use, but is not exact because the memory used by the producer is not all used for buffering. Some additional memory is used for compression (if compression is enabled), as well as for maintaining in-flight requests. The default value in the Apache Kafka documentation is `33554432` (32MB), but this should be capped to align with expected values for Mule instances in CloudHub (v0.1 core). |  1 |
```

| Linger Time Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  Determines the time unit for the linger time scalar. | `SECONDS` |
| Maximum block time  a| Number |  The configuration controls how long `KafkaProducer.send()` and `KafkaProducer.partitionsFor()` will block. These methods can be blocked either because the buffer is full or metadata `unavailable.Blocking` in the user-supplied serializers or partitioner will not be counted against this timeout. |  `60` |
| Maximum block time unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  Determines the time unit for the maximum block time scalar. |  `SECONDS` |

> | Maximum in flight requests a| Number |  The maximum number of unacknowledged requests the client will send on a single connection before blocking. If this setting is set to be greater than `1` and there are failed sends, there is a risk of message reordering due to retries (if retries are enabled). |  `5` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum in flight requests a| Number |  The maximum number of unacknowledged requests the client will send on a single connection before blocking. If the value for this setting is greater than `1` and there are failed sends, there is a risk of message re-ordering due to retries (if retries are enabled). |  `5` |
```

** DAYS |  |  |
| Streaming Strategy a| * <<repeatable-in-memory-stream>>
* <<repeatable-file-store-stream>>
* non-repeatable-stream |  Configure to use repeatable streams. |  |
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable to store the operation's output. |  |
| Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output and store the expression outcome in the target variable. |  `#[payload]` |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<reconnect>>
* <<reconnect-forever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

==== Output
[%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Type |Binary
| Attributes Type a| <<KafkaRecordAttributes>>
|===

=== For Configurations
* <<consumer-config>>

==== Throws
* KAFKA:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* KAFKA:ILLEGAL_STATE
* KAFKA:TIMEOUT
* KAFKA:INVALID_OFFSET
* KAFKA:INVALID_INPUT
* KAFKA:NOT_FOUND
* KAFKA:CONNECTIVITY

[[seek]]
=== Seek
`<kafka:seek>`

Sets the current offset of the consumer for the given topic and partition to the provided offset value.

==== Parameters
[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | | x

> | Topic a| String |  The name of the topic on which the seek operation will be performed. |  | x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Topic a| String |  The name of the topic on which to perform the seek operation. |  | x
```

** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  |  |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * <<reconnect>>
* <<reconnect-forever>> |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== For Configurations
* <<consumer-config>>

==== Throws
* KAFKA:INVALID_TOPIC
* KAFKA:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* KAFKA:TIMEOUT
* KAFKA:INVALID_OFFSET
* KAFKA:INVALID_INPUT
* KAFKA:NOT_FOUND
* KAFKA:CONNECTIVITY

[[publish]]
=== Publish
`<kafka:publish>`

Publish a message to the specified Kafka topic, optionally specifying the partition, key, and message content for it. The publish operation supports transactions.

==== Parameters
[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | | x
| Topic a| String |  The topic to publish to. |  |
| Partition a| Number |  (Optional) The topic partition.  |  |
| Key a| Binary |  (Optional) Key for the published message. |  |
| Message a| Binary |  (Optional) Message content of the message. |  `#[payload]` |
| Headers a| Object |  (Optional) Headers for the message. |  |
| Transactional Action a| Enumeration, one of:

** ALWAYS_JOIN
** JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE

> ** NOT_SUPPORTED |  The type of joining action that operations can take regarding transactions. |  `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** NOT_SUPPORTED |  The type of joining action that operations can take for transactions. |  `JOIN_IF_POSSIBLE` |
```

|===

=== For Configurations
* <<producer-config>>

==== Throws
* KAFKA:INVALID_TOPIC_PARTITION
* KAFKA:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* KAFKA:TIMEOUT
* KAFKA:CONNECTIVITY

== Input Sources

[[batch-message-listener]]
=== Batch Message Listener
`<kafka:batch-message-listener>`

This source supports the consumption of messages from a Kafka cluster, producing a list of messages to the flow.

==== Parameters
[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | | x
| Poll timeout a| Number |  The amount of time to block. Defines the total timeout for polling. |  |
| Poll timeout time unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS |  The time unit for the polling timeout. Used with poll timeout to define the total timeout for the polling. |  |
| Acknowledgment mode a| Enumeration, one of:

** AUTO
** MANUAL
** IMMEDIATE
** DUPS_OK |  Defines the way that the Kafka broker instance is notified of the consumption of messages.

* AUTO: Messages are committed only if the flow finishes successfully.

> * MANUAL: The user must commit manually through the Commit operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MANUAL: The user must commit manually using the Commit operation.
```

> * IMMEDIATE: Mule automatically commits the messages upon reception and before triggering the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* IMMEDIATE: Mule automatically commits the messages upon receipt and before triggering the flow.
```
